At their most basic level,
moisturizers reduce evaporation of water
from the outermost layers of skin,
which helps it to stay soft and pliable.
Some moisturizers contain
substances known as humectants,
which attract water from the air
rather than simply holding
onto water already present on the skin.
Moisturizers also typically contain emollients,
which soften and smooth the skin
by filling in spaces between skin cells.
In addition to humectants and emollients,
many moisturizers contain sunscreen,
vitamins, and other complex mixtures of
agents designed to provide various benefits,
such as increased turnover of skin cells
and increased production of collagen and elastin.